V0.16.0 bump (#1414)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: .github/CHANGELOG.md

# Release 0.16.0 (current release)

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

<h4>First class support for quantum kernels</h4>

* PennyLane now has a ``kernels`` module.

>   It provides basic functionalities for working with quantum kernels as well as
>   post-processing methods to mitigate sampling errors and device noise:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It provides basic functionalities for [working with quantum kernels]((https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/qml_kernels.html) as well as
  post-processing methods to mitigate sampling errors and device noise:
  [(#1102)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1102)
```
should we add a link?

      qml.adjoint(qml.templates.AngleEmbedding)(x2, wires=wires)
      return qml.probs(wires)

  kernel = lambda x1, x2: kernel_circuit(x1, x2)[0]
  X_train = np.random.random((10, 6))
  X_test = np.random.random((5, 6))

  # Create symmetric square kernel matrix (for training)
  K = qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X_train, kernel)

  # Compute kernel between test and training data.
  K_test = qml.kernels.kernel_matrix(X_train, X_test, kernel)
  K1 = qml.kernels.mitigate_depolarizing_noise(K, num_wires, method='single')
  ```

<h4>Extract the fourier representation of quantum circuits</h4>

* PennyLane now has a `fourier` module, which hosts a [growing library
  of methods](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/qml_fourier.html)
  that help with investigating the Fourier representation of functions
  implemented by quantum circuits.
  [(#1160)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1160)
  [(#1378)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1378)

  For example, one can plot distributions over Fourier series coefficients like
  this one:

  <img src="https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/fourier.png" width=70%/>

> <h4>Seamless support for constructing the Pauli group</h4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h4>Seamless support for working with the Pauli group</h4>
```

  >>> pg[55]
  PauliY(wires=['a']) @ PauliY(wires=['b']) @ PauliZ(wires=['c'])
  >>> pauli_mult(pg[3], pg[55], wire_map=wire_map)
  PauliY(wires=['a']) @ PauliX(wires=['b'])
  ```

  Functions for conversion of Pauli observables to strings (and back),
  are included.

  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.grouping import pauli_word_to_string, string_to_pauli_word
  >>> pauli_word_to_string(pg[55], wire_map=wire_map)
  'YYZ'
  >>> string_to_pauli_word('ZXY', wire_map=wire_map)
  PauliZ(wires=['a']) @ PauliX(wires=['b']) @ PauliY(wires=['c'])
  ```

  Calculation of the matrix representation for arbitrary Paulis and wire maps is now
  also supported.

  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.grouping import pauli_word_to_matrix
  >>> wire_map = {'a' : 0, 'b' : 1}
  >>> pauli_word = qml.PauliZ('b')  # corresponds to Pauli 'IZ'
  >>> pauli_word_to_matrix(pauli_word, wire_map=wire_map)
  array([[ 1.,  0.,  0.,  0.],
         [ 0., -1.,  0., -0.],
         [ 0.,  0.,  1.,  0.],
         [ 0., -0.,  0., -1.]])
  ```

<h4>New transforms</h4>

* The `specs` QNode transform creates a function that returns specifications or
  details about the QNode, including depth, number of gates, and number of

>   gradient executions required. Specifications can also be viewed after execution
>   of a QNode by accessing their `specs` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  gradient executions required.
```

  [(#1245)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1245)

>   For example:

Reviewer: I can't comment on it, but I suggest re-working the python/pycon split below:

```python
dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=4)

@qml.qnode(dev, diff_method='parameter-shift')
def circuit(x, y):
    qml.RX(x[0], wires=0)
    qml.Toffoli(wires=(0, 1, 2))
    qml.CRY(x[1], wires=(0, 1))
    qml.Rot(x[2], x[3], y, wires=0)
    return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0)), qml.expval(qml.PauliX(1))
```

We can now use the `qml.specs` transform to generate a function that returns details and resource information:

```pycon
>>> x = np.array([0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3], requires_grad=True)
>>> y = np.array(0.4, requires_grad=False)
>>> specs_func = qml.specs(circuit)
>>> specs_func(x, y)
{'gate_sizes': defaultdict(int, {1: 2, 3: 1, 2: 1}),
 'gate_types': defaultdict(int, {'RX': 1, 'Toffoli': 1, 'CRY': 1, 'Rot': 1}),
 'num_operations': 4,
 'num_observables': 2,
 'num_diagonalizing_gates': 1,
 'num_used_wires': 3,
 'depth': 4,
 'num_trainable_params': 4,
 'num_parameter_shift_executions': 11,
 'num_device_wires': 4,
 'device_name': 'default.qubit',
 'diff_method': 'parameter-shift'}
```

# Release 0.16.0 (current release)

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

<h4>First class support for quantum kernels</h4>

> * PennyLane now has a ``kernels`` module.
>   It provides basic functionalities for [working with quantum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The new `qml.kernels` module provides basic functionalities for [working with quantum
```

  kernels](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/qml_kernels.html) as
  well as post-processing methods to mitigate sampling errors and device noise:
  [(#1102)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1102)

  ```python

  num_wires = 6
  wires = range(num_wires)
  dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=wires)

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def kernel_circuit(x1, x2):
      qml.templates.AngleEmbedding(x1, wires=wires)
      qml.adjoint(qml.templates.AngleEmbedding)(x2, wires=wires)
      return qml.probs(wires)

  kernel = lambda x1, x2: kernel_circuit(x1, x2)[0]
  X_train = np.random.random((10, 6))
  X_test = np.random.random((5, 6))

  # Create symmetric square kernel matrix (for training)
  K = qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X_train, kernel)

  # Compute kernel between test and training data.
  K_test = qml.kernels.kernel_matrix(X_train, X_test, kernel)
  K1 = qml.kernels.mitigate_depolarizing_noise(K, num_wires, method='single')
  ```

<h4>Extract the fourier representation of quantum circuits</h4>

* PennyLane now has a `fourier` module, which hosts a [growing library
  of methods](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/qml_fourier.html)

>   that help with investigating the Fourier representation of functions
>   implemented by quantum circuits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that help with investigating the Fourier representation of functions
  implemented by quantum circuits. The Fourier representation can be used
  to examine and characterize the expressivity of the quantum circuit.
```

  [(#1160)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1160)
  [(#1378)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1378)

  For example, one can plot distributions over Fourier series coefficients like
  this one:

  <img src="https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_static/fourier.png" width=70%/>

<h4>Seamless support for working with the Pauli group</h4>

* Added functionality for constructing and manipulating the Pauli group
  [(#1181)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1181).

>   The function `pennylane.grouping.pauli_group` provides a generator to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The function `qml.grouping.pauli_group` provides a generator to
```

  >>> wire_map = {'a' : 0, 'b' : 1, 'c' : 2}
  >>> pg = list(pauli_group(3, wire_map=wire_map))
  >>> pg[3]
  PauliZ(wires=['b']) @ PauliZ(wires=['c'])
  >>> pg[55]
  PauliY(wires=['a']) @ PauliY(wires=['b']) @ PauliZ(wires=['c'])
  >>> pauli_mult(pg[3], pg[55], wire_map=wire_map)
  PauliY(wires=['a']) @ PauliX(wires=['b'])
  ```

  Functions for conversion of Pauli observables to strings (and back),
  are included.

  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.grouping import pauli_word_to_string, string_to_pauli_word
  >>> pauli_word_to_string(pg[55], wire_map=wire_map)
  'YYZ'
  >>> string_to_pauli_word('ZXY', wire_map=wire_map)
  PauliZ(wires=['a']) @ PauliX(wires=['b']) @ PauliY(wires=['c'])
  ```

  Calculation of the matrix representation for arbitrary Paulis and wire maps is now
  also supported.

  ```pycon
  >>> from pennylane.grouping import pauli_word_to_matrix
  >>> wire_map = {'a' : 0, 'b' : 1}
  >>> pauli_word = qml.PauliZ('b')  # corresponds to Pauli 'IZ'
  >>> pauli_word_to_matrix(pauli_word, wire_map=wire_map)
  array([[ 1.,  0.,  0.,  0.],
         [ 0., -1.,  0., -0.],
         [ 0.,  0.,  1.,  0.],
         [ 0., -0.,  0., -1.]])
  ```

<h4>New transforms</h4>

> * The `specs` QNode transform creates a function that returns specifications or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `qml.specs` QNode transform creates a function that returns specifications or
```

# Release 0.16.0 (current release)

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

> <h4>New and improved modules</h4>

Author: Sounds good! Created a third header `<h4>Extended QAOA and grouping modules</h4>` to group the remainder of the module changes.

* PennyLane now has a ``kernels`` module.
  It provides basic functionalities for working with quantum kernels as well as
  post-processing methods to mitigate sampling errors and device noise:

```python
import pennylane as qml

> from pennylane import numpy as np

Author: Yep sounds good! Thanks for the catch. Adding this snippet and a mitigation line at the end.

num_wires = 6
wires = range(num_wires)

dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=num_wires)

@qml.qnode(dev)
def kernel_circuit(x1, x2):
    qml.templates.AngleEmbedding(x1, wires=wires)
    qml.adjoint(qml.templates.AngleEmbedding)(x2, wires=wires)
    return qml.probs(wires)

kernel = lambda x1, x2: kernel_circuit(x1, x2)[0]

# "Training feature vectors"
X_train = np.random.random((10, 6))
# Create symmetric square kernel matrix (for training)
K = qml.kernels.square_kernel_matrix(X_train, kernel)
# Add some (symmetric) Gaussian noise to the kernel matrix.
N = np.random.randn(10, 10)
K += (N + N.T) / 2

K1 = qml.kernels.displace_matrix(K)
K2 = qml.kernels.closest_psd_matrix(K)
K3 = qml.kernels.threshold_matrix(K)
K4 = qml.kernels.mitigate_depolarizing_noise(K, num_wires, method='single')
K5 = qml.kernels.mitigate_depolarizing_noise(K, num_wires, method='average')
K6 = qml.kernels.mitigate_depolarizing_noise(K, num_wires, method='split_channel')

# "Testing feature vectors"
X_test = np.random.random((5, 6))
# Compute kernel between test and training data.
K_test = qml.kernels.kernel_matrix(X_train, X_test, kernel)
```

> * Functionality to support solving the maximum-weighted cycle problem has been added to the `qaoa`

Author: Moved :+1:

  module.
  [(#1207)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1207)
  [(#1209)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1209)
  [(#1251)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1251)
  [(#1213)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1213)
  [(#1220)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1220)
  [(#1214)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1214)
  [(#1283)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1283)
  [(#1297)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1297)
  [(#1396)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1396)
  [(#1403)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1403)

  The `max_weight_cycle` function returns the appropriate cost and mixer Hamiltonians:

  ```pycon
  >>> a = np.random.random((3, 3))
  >>> np.fill_diagonal(a, 0)
  >>> g = nx.DiGraph(a)  # create a random directed graph
  >>> cost, mixer, mapping = qml.qaoa.max_weight_cycle(g)

>   >>> print(cost)

Author: Good point! Removed

  ```pycon
  >>> circuit(x, transform_weights)
  tensor(0.00672829, requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.grad(circuit)(x, transform_weights)
  (array([ 0.00671711, -0.00207359]), array([6.69695008e-02, 3.73694364e-06]))
  ```

* Adds a `hamiltonian_expand` tape transform. This takes a tape ending in
  `qml.expval(H)`, where `H` is a Hamiltonian, and maps it to a collection
  of tapes which can be executed and passed into a post-processing function yielding
  the expectation value.
  [(#1142)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1142)

  Example use:

  ```python
  H = qml.PauliZ(0) + 3 * qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliX(1)

  with qml.tape.QuantumTape() as tape:
      qml.Hadamard(wires=1)
      qml.expval(H)

  tapes, fn = qml.transforms.hamiltonian_expand(tape)
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=3)

>   res = dev.batch_execute(tapes)

Reviewer: I think this split here between python/pycon occurs more naturally after the tape context

Reviewer: ```python
H = qml.PauliZ(0) + 3 * qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliX(1)

with qml.tape.QuantumTape() as tape:
    qml.Hadamard(wires=1)
    qml.expval(H)

tapes, fn = qml.transforms.hamiltonian_expand(tape)
```

We can now evaluate the transformed tapes, and apply
the post-processing function:
```pycon
>>> dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=3)
>>> res = dev.batch_execute(tapes)
>>> fn(res)
3.999999999999999
```

  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> fn(res)
  3.999999999999999
  ```

* The `quantum_monte_carlo` transform has been added, allowing an input circuit to be transformed
  into the full quantum Monte Carlo algorithm.

>   [(#1316)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1316)

Reviewer: Could we add a small example here?

  >>> info
  {'gate_sizes': defaultdict(int, {1: 2, 3: 1, 2: 1}),
   'gate_types': defaultdict(int, {'RX': 1, 'Toffoli': 1, 'CRY': 1, 'Rot': 1}),

>    'num_perations': 4,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   'num_operations': 4,
```

  of tapes which can be executed and passed into a post-processing function yielding
  the expectation value.
  [(#1142)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1142)

  Example use:

  ```python
  H = qml.PauliZ(0) + 3 * qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliX(1)

  with qml.tape.QuantumTape() as tape:
      qml.Hadamard(wires=1)
      qml.expval(H)

  tapes, fn = qml.transforms.hamiltonian_expand(tape)
  ```

  We can now evaluate the transformed tapes, and apply the post-processing
  function:

  ```pycon
  >>> dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=3)
  >>> res = dev.batch_execute(tapes)
  >>> fn(res)
  3.999999999999999
  ```

* The `quantum_monte_carlo` transform has been added, allowing an input circuit to be transformed
  into the full quantum Monte Carlo algorithm.
  [(#1316)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1316)

  Suppose we want to measure the expectation value of the sine squared function according to
  a standard normal distribution. We can calculate the expectation value analytically as
  `0.432332`, but we can also estimate using the quantum Monte Carlo algorithm. The first step is to
  discretize the problem:

>   ```python

Reviewer: I think we can reduce the size of this example by avoiding using saved constants:

```python
# The first step is to discretize the problem
import numpy as np
from scipy.stats import norm

xs = np.linspace(-np.pi, np.pi, 2 ** 5)
probs = np.array([norm().pdf(x) for x in xs])
probs /= np.sum(probs)

func = lambda i: np.sin(xs[i]) ** 2
r_rotations = np.array([2 * np.arcsin(np.sqrt(func(i))) for i in range(2 ** 5)])
```
```python
# The quantum_monte_carlo transform can then be used
import pennylane as qml
from pennylane.templates.state_preparations.mottonen import (
    _uniform_rotation_dagger as r_unitary,
)

def fn():
    qml.templates.MottonenStatePreparation(np.sqrt(probs), wires=range(5))
    r_unitary(qml.RY, r_rotations, control_wires=range(5)[::-1], target_wire=5)

dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=12)

@qml.qnode(dev)
def qmc():
    qml.quantum_monte_carlo(fn, wires=range(6), target_wire=5, estimation_wires=range(6, 12))()
    return qml.probs(range(6, 12))

phase_estimated = np.argmax(qmc()[:int(2 ** 6 / 2)]) / 2 ** 6
print((1 - np.cos(np.pi * phase_estimated)) / 2)
```

Reviewer: I have to admit, I'm a bit confused as to why a private function `_uniform_rotation_dagger` needs to be imported?

Author: Thanks! It is indeed shorter, though the example also seems to be a bit less readable overall. Would we like to target brevity here?

As for the private function, this seems to be a function used for QMC frequently. The example was added in 8d28326d03eee18cf3de570dac9f8ba3fa17fe64 following the [QMC example from the Usage Details](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/latest/code/api/pennylane.quantum_monte_carlo.html?highlight=quantum_monte_carlo#pennylane.quantum_monte_carlo). Would we like to update that?

  + (-0.6426184210832898) [Z5]
  + (-0.2832594164291379) [Z1]
  + (-0.0778133996933755) [Z4]
  >>> print(mapping)
  {0: (0, 1), 1: (0, 2), 2: (1, 0), 3: (1, 2), 4: (2, 0), 5: (2, 1)}
  ```
  Additional functionality can be found in the
  [qml.qaoa.cycle](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/latest/code/api/pennylane.qaoa.cycle.html)
  module.

<h4>Extended operations and templates</h4>

* Added functionality to compute the sparse matrix representation of a `qml.Hamiltonian` object.
  [(#1394)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1394)

> 
>   Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  and the depth of the quantum circuit with respect to the traditional UCCSD
  unitary.
  [(#1383)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1383)

  For example, consider the case of two particles and four qubits.
  First, we define the Hartree-Fock initial state and generate all
  possible single and double excitations.

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml
  from pennylane import numpy as np

  electrons = 2
  qubits = 4

  hf_state = qml.qchem.hf_state(electrons, qubits)
  singles, doubles = qml.qchem.excitations(electrons, qubits)
  ```
  Now we can use the template ``AllSinglesDoubles`` to define the
  quantum circuit,

  ```python
  from pennylane.templates import AllSinglesDoubles

  wires = range(qubits)

  dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=wires)

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(weights, hf_state, singles, doubles):
      AllSinglesDoubles(weights, wires, hf_state, singles, doubles)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

  params = np.random.normal(0, np.pi, len(singles) + len(doubles))
  circuit(params, hf_state, singles=singles, doubles=doubles)
  ```
* Adds `QubitCarry` and `QubitSum` operations for basic arithmetic.

>   [(#1169)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1169)

Reviewer: I can't comment on it, but same comment before - the split between python/pycon can take place when `circuit()` is evaluated 🙂

  possible single and double excitations.

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml
  from pennylane import numpy as np

  electrons = 2
  qubits = 4

  hf_state = qml.qchem.hf_state(electrons, qubits)
  singles, doubles = qml.qchem.excitations(electrons, qubits)
  ```
  Now we can use the template ``AllSinglesDoubles`` to define the
  quantum circuit,

  ```python
  from pennylane.templates import AllSinglesDoubles

  wires = range(qubits)

  dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=wires)

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(weights, hf_state, singles, doubles):
      AllSinglesDoubles(weights, wires, hf_state, singles, doubles)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

  params = np.random.normal(0, np.pi, len(singles) + len(doubles))
  circuit(params, hf_state, singles=singles, doubles=doubles)
  ```

* Added Projector observable, which is available on all devices inheriting from the `QubitDevice` class.
  [(#1356)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1356)

* Ising XX gate functionality added.
  [(#1194)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1194)

* Ising ZZ gate functionality added.
  [(#1199)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1199)

> * The ISWAP operation has been added to the `default_qubit` device.

Author: The description is misleading, `qml.ISWAP` had to also be added here. Added it to the list of new ops.

  + (-0.6426184210832898) [Z5]
  + (-0.2832594164291379) [Z1]
  + (-0.0778133996933755) [Z4]

>   >>> print(mapping)

Reviewer: looks much better!

  (0, 1)
  ```

* Added Projector observable, which is available on all devices inheriting from
  the `QubitDevice` class.

>   [(#1356)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1356)

Reviewer: Can we add a very small example here?

* The following new operations have been added:

  - The IsingXX gate `qml.IsingXX` [(#1194)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1194)
  - The IsingZZ gate `qml.IsingZZ` [(#1199)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1199)
  - The ISWAP gate `qml.ISWAP` [(#1298)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1298)

>   - The reset error noise channel `qml.ResetError` [(#1321)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1321)

Reviewer: Looks way better :)

  [(#1371)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1371)

  For example, consider two trainable parameters and a quantum function:

  ```python
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)

  x = np.array(0.543, requires_grad=True)
  y = np.array(-0.654, requires_grad=True)

  def circuit(x,y):
      qml.RX(x, wires=[0])
      qml.RY(y, wires=[1])
      qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliX(1))
  ```

  When computing the gradient of the QNode, we can specify the trainable
  parameters to consider by passing the ``argnum`` keyword argument:

  ```pycon
  >>> qnode1 = qml.QNode(circuit, dev, diff_method="parameter-shift", argnum=[0,1])
  >>> print(qml.grad(qnode1)(x,y))
  (array(0.31434679), array(0.67949903))
  ```

  Specifying a proper subset of the trainable parameters will estimate the
  Jacobian:

  ```pycon
  >>> qnode2 = qml.QNode(circuit, dev, diff_method="parameter-shift", argnum=[0])
  >>> print(qml.grad(qnode2)(x,y))
  (array(0.31434679), array(0.))
  ```

* Allows creating differentiable observables that return custom objects such
  that the observable is supported by devices.

>   [(1291)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1291)

Reviewer: I think this entry might also be too vague without a small example of what it looks like 🤔

* PennyLane NumPy now includes the
  [random module's](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/random/index.html#module-numpy.random)
  `Generator` objects, the recommended way of random number generation. This allows for
  random number generation using a local, rather than global seed.
  [(#1267)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1267)

  ```python
  from pennylane import numpy as np

  rng = np.random.default_rng()
  random_mat1 = rng.random((3,2))
  random_mat2 = rng.standard_normal(3, requires_grad=False)
  ```

* The adjoint jacobian differentiation method reuses the state computed on the forward pass.

>   This can be turned off to save memory with the Torch and TensorFlow interfaces by passing

Reviewer: It might be good to say what the improvement is here. In this case, it leads to a significant performance improvement.

  x = np.array(0.543, requires_grad=True)
  y = np.array(-0.654, requires_grad=True)

  def circuit(x,y):
      qml.RX(x, wires=[0])
      qml.RY(y, wires=[1])
      qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliX(1))
  ```

  When computing the gradient of the QNode, we can specify the trainable
  parameters to consider by passing the ``argnum`` keyword argument:

  ```pycon
  >>> qnode1 = qml.QNode(circuit, dev, diff_method="parameter-shift", argnum=[0,1])
  >>> print(qml.grad(qnode1)(x,y))
  (array(0.31434679), array(0.67949903))
  ```

  Specifying a proper subset of the trainable parameters will estimate the
  Jacobian:

  ```pycon
  >>> qnode2 = qml.QNode(circuit, dev, diff_method="parameter-shift", argnum=[0])
  >>> print(qml.grad(qnode2)(x,y))
  (array(0.31434679), array(0.))
  ```

* It is now possible
  to create custom Observables and corresponding devices whose return type can
  be an arbitrary object and QNodes using such Observable remain
  differentiable with `qml.grad` as long as the class of the returned object
  implements the operations of a field. See `tests/tape/test_jacobian_tape.py`
  for an example.

>   [(1291)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1291)

Author: Rewritten the description, and have a shortened example, but that's also 50-60 lines :thinking: Maybe worth leaving the example? Seems a bit lengthy and it doesn't seem like it's easy to showcase the change

  class NewObservable(qml.operation.Observable):
      """NewObservable"""

      num_wires = qml.operation.AnyWires
      num_params = 0
      par_domain = None

      def diagonalizing_gates(self):
          """Diagonalizing gates"""
          return []
  ```

  Once we have this new observable class, we define a `SpecialObject` class
  that can be used to encode data in an observable and a new device that supports
  our new observable and returns a `SpecialObject` as the expectation value:

  ```python
  class SpecialObject:

      def __init__(self, val):
          self.val = val

      def __mul__(self, other):
          new = SpecialObject(self.val)
          new *= other
          return new

      def __imul__(self, other):
          self.val *= other
          return self

      def __rmul__(self, other):
          return self * other

      def __iadd__(self, other):
          self.val += other.val if isinstance(other, self.__class__) else other
          return self

      def __add__(self, other):
          new = SpecialObject(self.val)
          new += other.val if isinstance(other, self.__class__) else other
          return new

      def __radd__(self, other):

>           return self + other

Reviewer: This example is great @antalszava!! Will be really helpful to have.

My only question is, do you think it's possible to reduce the code size of the `SpecialObject` class codeblock? Unfortunately, I'm not sure if that's possible without using pseudocode:

```python
class SpecialObject:
    """Container class for our observable result.
    The special methods __mul__, __imul__, __add__, __iadd__,
    __radd__ should be defined."""

    
    def __init__(self, val):
        self.val = val

    def __mul__(self, other):
        new = SpecialObject(self.val)
        new *= other
        return new

    ...
```

Author: Unfortunately, it seems not to be the case. The arithmetic defs are required so that the object is differentiable. Otherwise we are facing errors like:

```
RecursionError: maximum recursion depth exceeded
```
```
TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for *: 'SpecialObject' and 'float'
```

> *  A decomposition has been added for the `qml.CSWAP` operation.

Reviewer: I can't comment on it, but above, on the entry:

> * Implement special handling for measuring the variance of Projector observables to improve memory usage.
> [(#1368)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1368)

I would delete this, and simply add a link to #1368 to the existing projector entry,

> * Added Projector observable, which is available on all devices inheriting from

  have decompositions over elementary gates.
  [(#1278)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1278)

* The `qml.SWAP` operation now has a decomposition over elementary gates.
  [(#1329)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1329)

* The `qml.Toffoli` operation now has a decomposition over elementary gates.
  [(#1320)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1320)

> * Added CPhase operation as an alias for ControlledPhaseShift operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `qml.CPhase` as an alias for the existing `qml.ControlledPhaseShift` operation.
```

>   [(#1319)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1319).

Reviewer: Let's combine this, as well as the entry for

> A decomposition has been added for the qml.CSWAP operation.

into a single entry with nested bullet points, like you did above for

> * The following new operations have been added:

:)

Reviewer: that is,

```markdown
* Decompositions in terms of elementary gates has been added for:

  - `qml.Toffoli` [(#1320)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1320)

* Added custom gate application for Toffoli in `default.qubit`.
  [(#1249)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1249)

* Added validation for noise channel parameters. Invalid noise parameters now
  raise a `ValueError`.
  [(#1357)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1357)

* The device test suite now provides test cases for checking gates by comparing
  expectation values.
  [(#1212)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1212)

* PennyLane's test suite is now code-formatted using `black -l 100`.
  [(#1222)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1222)

* PennyLane's `qchem` package and tests are now code-formatted using `black -l 100`.
  [(#1311)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1311)

<h3>Breaking changes</h3>

* The `qml.inv()` function is now deprecated with a warning to use the more general `qml.adjoint()`.
  [(#1325)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1325)

> * Removes support for Python 3.6 and begin testing for Python 3.9.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removes support for Python 3.6 and adds support for Python 3.9.
```

  [(#1228)](https://github.com/XanaduAI/pennylane/pull/1228)

> 

Reviewer: Even if it is duplicated in another section, best to briefly state _all_ deprecations here, so that they are easily referenced. One that comes to mind is `tape.get_resources` and `tape.get_depth` (mentioned in the `specs` entry). Are there any others?

Author: > One that comes to mind is tape.get_resources and tape.get_depth (mentioned in the specs entry).

Just double-checking: so we'd like to add "ongoing" deprecations too to the "Breaking changes" section, correct? As this one is not yet deprecated, but will be.

I've updated this section to have the ongoing deprecations too. One other, that came to mind was using `qml.sample` with a device that has `shots=None`, where we'll like to turn to an error instead of a warning.

Reviewer: Fantastic! Thanks Antal

  ```

  ```pycon

>   >>> tape = tape.expand(depth=1)

Author: The original `tape = tape.expand(depth=2)` decomposes the `qml.MultiControlledX` operations and creates a way deeper circuit. Hence `depth=1` it the choice we'd like to showcase here.

Reviewer: 👍

  to the `StronglyEntanglingLayers` template.
  [(#1332)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1332)

* Fixed a bug where `qml.sum()` and `qml.dot()` do not support the JAX interface.
  [(#1380)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1380)

<h3>Documentation</h3>

> * Math docstrings in class `QubitParamShiftTape` now rendered properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Math present in the `QubitParamShiftTape` class docstring now renders correctly.
```

  [(#1402)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1402)

> * Fix typo in the documentation of qml.templates.layers.StronglyEntanglingLayers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix typo in the documentation of `qml.StronglyEntanglingLayers`.
```

  [(#1367)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1367)

> * Fixed typo on TensorFlow interface documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed typo in TensorFlow interface documentation
```

  [(#1271)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1271)

* Updated the docstring of `qml.PolyXP` to reference the new location of internal
  usage.
  [(#1262)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1262)

* Removes occurrences of the deprecated device argument ``analytic`` from the documentation.
  [(#1261)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1261)

* Updated PyTorch and TensorFlow interface introductions.
  [(#1333)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1333)

> * Fixes the qchem introduction to accommodate changes.

Reviewer: Hmm, this is maybe too vague for a changelog.
```suggestion
* Updates the quantum chemistry quickstart to reflect recent changes to the `qchem` module.
```

  [(#1227)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/1227)

<h3>Contributors</h3>

This release contains contributions from (in alphabetical order):

Marius Aglitoiu, Vishnu Ajith, Juan Miguel Arrazola, Thomas Bromley, Jack Ceroni, Alaric Cheng, Miruna Daian,
Olivia Di Matteo, Tanya Garg, Christian Gogolin, Alain Delgado Gran, Diego Guala, Anthony Hayes, Ryan Hill,
Theodor Isacsson, Josh Izaac, Soran Jahangiri, Pavan Jayasinha, Nathan Killoran, Christina Lee, Ryan Levy,
Alberto Maldonado, Johannes Jakob Meyer, Romain Moyard, Ashish Panigrahi, Nahum Sá, Maria Schuld, Brian Shi,

> Antal Száva, David Wierichs, Vincent Wong.

Reviewer: huge number of contributors!
